.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.\" Like TP, but if specified indent is more than half
.\" the current line-length - indent, use the default indent.
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH RC.INET1.CONF 5 "12 Nov 2017" "Slackware Version 15.0"
.SH NAME
rc.inet1.conf \- Slackware network configuration file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rc.inet1.conf
\. This file contains the configuration settings for network interfaces.
It consists basically of a series of variable array definitions.
Array elements with the same index number will all belong to the same
network interface.
.LP
By default, index number `0' is used for the configuration of interface
.I eth0,
index number `1' is used for
.I eth1
and so forth. The default interface name can be overruled by the use of
the variable
.B IFNAME.
.LP
This is what a typical section of the file looks like for a card that is
configured to use DHCP, showing all array variables with the index number [0]:
.LP
# Config information for eth0:
.br
IPADDR[0]=""
.br
NETMASK[0]=""
.br
IPALIASES[0]=""
.br
USE_DHCP[0]="yes"
.br
DHCP_HOSTNAME[0]=""
.br
DHCP_TIMEOUT[0]=""
.LP
Alternatively, here is an example for a card that uses a static IP address and
has a non-default name (
.I ath0
instead of
.I eth1
), as well as an additional IP address configured on the interface.
The array index is [1] in this case.
.LP
# Config information for ath0 (using static IP address):
.br
IFNAME[1]="ath0"
.br
IPADDR[1]="192.168.3.11"
.br
NETMASK[1]="255.255.255.0"
.br
IPALIASES[1]="192.168.3.100"
.br
USE_DHCP[1]=""
.br
DHCP_HOSTNAME[1]=""
.br
GATEWAY="192.168.3.1"
.br
.SH EXAMPLE VIRTUAL INTERFACE CREATION AND SETUP
Virtual interfaces are created before any address configuration or bridge 
setup is done, so you may use these interfaces as IFNAME or BRNICS values.
These can be tun or tap interfaces: adjust VIRTIFNAME and VIRTIFTYPE as
needed.
.LP
# Virtual tap interface example
.br
#VIRTIFNAME[0]="tap0"
.br
#VIRTIFTYPE[0]="tap"
.br
#VIRTIFUSER[0]="root"
.br
#VIRTIFGROUP[0]="root"
.br
.SH EXAMPLE BRIDGE CREATION AND SETUP
Note the added "BRNICS" variable which contains a space-separated list
of the physical or virtual network interfaces you want to add to the bridge.
Note that the array index can not be a duplicate of that defined for some
other interface (e.g. eth0 will be index 0 by default).
.LP
IFNAME[0]="br0"
.br
BRNICS[0]="eth0 eth1 tun0"
.br
IPADDR[0]="192.168.0.1"
.br
NETMASK[0]="255.255.255.0"
.br
IPALIASES[0]=""
.br
USE_DHCP[0]=""
.br
DHCP_HOSTNAME[0]=""
.br
.SH GENERAL PARAMETERS
This is a list of network parameters you can set for any card (wired as well
as wired).  The example section is for `eth0' by default, i.e.
the array variables all have the array index [0]:
.LP
# Config information for eth0:
.TP 25
IPADDR[0]=""
# Set this value to an actual IP address if you want static IP
address assignment
.TP
NETMASK[0]=""
# With a static IP address, you are required to also set a netmask
(255.255.255.0 is common)
.TP
IPALIASES[0]=""
# Space separated list of additional IP addresses to bind to the 
interface after initial configuration is complete. If USE_DHCP is
set to `yes' then additional addresses will only be added if the
dhcp client invocation is successful in obtaining a primary address.
.TP
USE_DHCP[0]="yes"
# If set to "yes", we will run a DHCP client and have the IP address
dynamically assigned
.TP
DHCP_HOSTNAME[0]="mybox"
# Tell the DHCP server what hostname to register
.TP
DHCP_TIMEOUT[0]=15
# The default timeout for the DHCP client to wait for server response is
30 seconds, but you might want a shorter wait.
.TP
IFNAME[0]="usb0"
# Use this to define configuration blocks for interfaces with non-standard
names (this should be rare these days)
.TP
HWADDR[0]="00:01:23:45:67:89"
# Overrule the card's hardware MAC address
.TP
MTU[0]=""
# The default MTU is 1500, but you might need 1360 when you use NAT'ed
IPSec traffic. IPv6 will likely require smaller MTUs as well
.TP
DHCP_KEEPRESOLV[0]="yes"
# If you do
.B not
want `/etc/resolv.conf' overwritten by the DHCP client
.TP
DHCP_KEEPNTP[0]="yes"
# If you do
.B not
want `/etc/ntp.conf' overwritten by the DHCP client
.TP
DHCP_KEEPGW[0]="yes"
# If you do
.B not
want the DHCP client to change your default gateway
.TP
DHCP_DEBUG[0]="yes"
# Make dhcpcd show verbose diagnostics
.TP
DHCP_NOIPV4LL[0]="yes"
# Do not assign an
.I `ipv4ll'
address when a DHCP server is not found (ipv4 link-local addressing in the IP range 169.254.0.0/16 is also known as
.I `zeroconf'
address assignment)
.TP
DHCP_IPADDR[0]=""
# Request a specific IP address from the DHCP server
.SH WIRELESS PARAMETERS
For wireless cards, several additional parameter definitions are available.
All these parameters (or better, variables) start with the prefix
.B WLAN_ .
.LP
.TP 25
WLAN_ESSID[4]=DARKSTAR
# Your Wireless Access Point's name
.TP
WLAN_MODE[4]=Managed
# "Managed" mode for use with Access Points.  "Ad-Hoc" is for
peer-to-peer connections.
.TP
WLAN_RATE[4]="54M auto"
# The transmission rates you want the driver to try ("auto" means
that bandwidth can be variable)
.TP
WLAN_CHANNEL[4]="auto"
# The channel to which the Access Point is tuned ("auto" to let the
driver find out the correct channel) 
.TP
WLAN_KEY[4]="D5A31F54ACF0487C2D0B1C10D2"
# Definition of a WEP key
.TP
WLAN_IWPRIV[4]="set AuthMode=WPAPSK | set EncrypType=TKIP | set WPAPSK=the_64_character_key"
# Some drivers require a private ioctl to be set through the iwpriv command.
If more than one is required, you can place them in the
.I IWPRIV
parameter (separated with the pipe (|) character, see the example).
.TP 
WLAN_WPA[4]="wpa_supplicant"
# Run wpa_supplicant for WPA support
.TP
WLAN_WPADRIVER[4]="ndiswrapper"
# Tell wpa_supplicant to specifically use the ndiswrapper driver.
If you leave this empty the `wext' driver is used by default; most
modern wireless drivers use 'wext'.
.TP
WLAN_WPAWAIT[4]=30
# In case it takes long for the WPA association to finish, you can
increase the wait time before rc.wireless decides that association
failed (defaults to 10 seconds)
.SH FILES
.TP 25
.I /etc/rc.d/rc.inet1
network configuration script
.TP
.I /etc/rc.d/rc.inet1.conf
configuration parameter file (is being read by rc.inet1 and rc.wireless)
.TP
.I /etc/rc.d/rc.wireless
wireless configuration script
.TP
.I /etc/rc.d/rc.wireless.conf
configuration parameter file (
.B deprecated
)
.SH CAVEATS
The network interface definitions are stored in variable
.I arrays.
The bash shell has no facilities to retrieve the largest array index used.
Therefore, the
.I rc.inet1
script makes the assumption that array indexes stay below the value of
.B 6
\.
.LP
If you want to configure more than six network interfaces, you will
have to edit the file
.I /etc/rc.d/rc.inet1
and change the value `6' in the line
.B MAXNICS=${MAXNICS:-6}
to the number of network interfaces you wish to use.
.SH AUTHORS
Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>
Eric Hameleers <alien@slackware.com>
Robby Workman <rworkman@slackware.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rc.inet1(8)
