.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.\" Like TP, but if specified indent is more than half
.\" the current line-length - indent, use the default indent.
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.lu-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH REMOVEPKG 8 "23 Nov 2001" "Slackware Version 8.1.0"
.SH NAME
removepkg \- remove Slackware packages.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B removepkg
.BI packagename
.LP
[
.B ROOT=/mnt
]
.B removepkg
[
.B \-copy
]
[
.B \-keep
]
[
.B \-preserve
]
[
.B \-warn
]
.BI packagename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B removepkg
removes a previously installed Slackware package, while writing a progress
report to the standard output.  A package may be specified either by the
full package name (as you'd see listed in /var/log/packages/), or by the
base package name.  For example, the package foo-1.0-i486-1.tgz may be removed
with any of the following commands:

removepkg foo-1.0-i486-1.tgz (also recognized: .tbz, .tlz, .txz)

removepkg foo-1.0-i486-1

removepkg foo.tgz

removepkg foo

When deleting files,
.B removepkg
will analyze the contents of the other packages installed on your system, and
will only delete the files that are unique to the package being removed. 
Similarly, the installation scripts for all the other packages will be 
considered when deciding whether or not to delete symbolic links from the
package.
.LP
Removing a package (as well as installing one) can be a dangerous undertaking.
For this reason, there is the
.B \-warn
option available. When you use this,
.B removepkg
will not actually remove any files or links, but will output a detailed report
of what it would do if you actually did remove the package. It's suggested that
you do this (and maybe pipe the output to 
.B less
) before removing packages to make sure you've backed up anything that might
be important.
.LP
When removing a package, it's original file index will be moved from 
/var/log/packages to /var/log/removed_packages. Likewise, it's installation
script will be moved from /var/log/scripts to /var/log/removed_scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-warn packagename
Generate a report to the standard output about which files and directories
would be removed, but does not actually remove the package.
.TP
.B \-preserve packagename
If specified, the complete package subtree is reconstructed in 
/var/log/setup/tmp/preserved_packages/packagename.
.TP
.B \-copy packagename
Construct a copy of the package under /var/log/setup/tmp/preserved_packages/packagename,
but don't remove it.  (same effect as \-warn \-preserve)
.TP
.B \-keep
Save the intermediate files created by removepkg (delete_list, 
required_files, uniq_list, del_link_list, required_links, 
required_list).  Mostly useful for debugging purposes.
.SH " "
It's possible to remove a package from a filesystem
other than / by supplying
.B removepkg
with a
.B ROOT
environment variable:
.TP
.B ROOT=/mnt removepkg package

.SH AUTHORS
Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>,
with enhancements by Christian Franke <c.franke@acm.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR installpkg(8),
.BR makepkg(8),
.BR pkgtool(8), 
.BR upgradepkg(8)
